# ANX_CVD

Anxiety disorders are prevalent mental health conditions with significant comorbidities, 
particularly with cardiovascular disorders, including coronary artery disease, heart failure, 
stroke, and hypertension. Despite the robust epidemiological associations between anxiety and 
cardiovascular disorders, the underlying genetic mechanisms remain unclear. This study adopts 
an exploratory approach to investigate the genetic overlap between anxiety and cardiovascular 
disorders traits through comprehensive genomic analyses, including global and local genetic 
correlations, and genomic structural equation modelling (Genomic SEM). Using data from 
large-scale genome-wide association studies (GWAS), we identified significant genetic 
correlations between anxiety and cardiovascular traits, with the strongest overlap observed for 
heart failure (rg = 0.31) and coronary artery disease (rg = 0.25). These findings suggest that 
shared genetic factors contribute to both conditions. In contrast, cardiac rhythm-related traits, 
such as QT and PR intervals, exhibited minimal genetic overlap with anxiety. Local genetic 
correlation analysis revealed that the genetic overlap is concentrated in specific genomic 
regions, particularly those influencing atherosclerotic traits like heart failure and hypertension 
and coronary artery disease, with significant positive correlations, while rhythm-related traits 
showed limited regional genetic correlation. Genomic SEM further identified latent genetic 
factors linking anxiety and different cardiovascular disorders traits, providing insight into the 
shared genetic liability between these complex traits. This study highlights the importance of 
shared genetic mechanisms in the comorbidity of anxiety and cardiovascular disorders, offering 
potential avenues for future research aimed at uncovering the biological pathways that underlie 
this relationship and guiding targeted interventions. 
